Foreword

I thought it would be fun to create a book covering the things that I have learnt this past year and a half while creating a (hopefully) useful tool for future students. I also really enjoy opensource projects such as R and really think that it is a brilliant workspace. It is not only flexible but creates a very structured environment where all your decisions throughout the analysis is easily documented and shared. In short, I like R and RStudio. The problem is that R is hard, the learning curve is slow, and if you are a psychologist, the opportunities to learn programming are sparse unless you seek them out for yourself. With this book I hope to create an accessible guide to how you can use R for your studies and hopefully your future work. Now is a good time to point out that I am not a statistician, as of writing this I have not even graduated from the master´s program. Thus, this book should not be treated as an authoritative voice on how you should do statistics or interpret your results. The aim here is simple, it is to guide you through some of the statistical analyses that you will encounter and introduce the R programming language in the meantime. There will of course be some explanations of the tools that we use in terms of their statistical properties and interpretations of the results from our analyses, but I cannot stress enough that this is not a book about statistics, it´s a book about doing statistics in R. It´s designed to be brief and easily skimmed though in the sense that you won’t have to read so much of my blathering to understand the interesting bits - the code. 

In sum, this is a compilation of the topics covered in the master´s programme in psychological science at the university of Gothenburg in 2021/22 with some additional chapters by yours truly on some of the things that I think are useful and important. It is a supplementary text that simply translates the analyses described in the literature into R-code. It is for students who want to learn R but don’t know where to start. It can be hard to learn things on your own without any real incentives, and I hope that this book can coax some people into R through it´s accessibility and relevance to what you will be doing in class anyways. Good luck and happy reading/coding
  
