The grain of salt

If it wasn’t painfully clear from the foreword, I do not presume myself to have any sort of authority in matters of statistics (or software for that matter). This text is as much for my own education as for anyone who wishes to use it as a guide. With that said, there are some disclaimers needed. In general, I prefer Bayesian solutions to data analytic problems compared to frequentist solutions. Since I will mostly cover non-Bayesian analyses, this clarification has value, since much of what we will be doing in this “book” is not my preferred way of doing statistics. This does not mean that the modelling that we will be doing is “wrong” or misleading, I’m certainly not a Bayesian fundamentalist, but I generally prefer full posterior estimations and bayes factors to p-values and confidence intervals. I cannot stress enough that this is preference, there are many cases where frequent and Bayesian statistics come to similar conclusions, but in some cases, Bayes can help you. And if Bayes does not help you, then what is the reason for doing it? I would again like to stress that I am neither a psychologist, statistician, compute scientists or a teacher, so I am very much out of my depth here, but if I were to pretend that I were any of those things there would be three things that I would like to say before you start going through this “book”: 
1: Be aware of survival bias. All of the code/models (online or in this book) are victims of survival bias. Before those successful models or codes were written, there was numerus unsuccessful attempts to specify that model or code. So, when your model does not work or your code returns am error, be aware that it is a part of the process. And remember, all the successful things you see rests atop a pile of discarded alternatives! 
2: Horses for courses. This old adage is very much applied to statistics. Individuals have different preferences in how they wish to solve certain problems. Annoyingly, there are often many ways to solve similar problems, but it is important to remember to use the right horse for the course. This is not meant to be interpreted in a cook-book kind of way but rather that certain analytical solutions are suited for different things. So remember what YOUR question is and try to find the right analytical tool for that specific problem. 
3: Embrace uncertainty. It is quite rare, in my experience, that scientists talk about what they do not know, or report statistics in a way that emphasises their uncertainty about a topic. Don´t think that you need to have an answer to everything, it is very hard to “know” anything – that’s why science is hard. This does not mean that you should be afraid to make predictions, but it does mean that you should be very open to being wrong and to be conservative with what you are certain about. 

Hopefully this section can cover my back to the people who might take extreme issue with me writing this little guide and to give the readers of this a little bit of insight in how I reason about science. 
